# Reflection

In the second part of this course the class has explored playfulness and how it pertains to history. In class we explored playfulness in two main ways, firstly by reading and being taught about concepts relating to playfulness in history and secondly by playing games and building things using various applications. I found some of the concepts in this section of the course quite abstract in some ways however I will do my best to reflect on them and how I think they changed my understanding of what history can be. 
	
One of the questions posed to the class in this part of the course is what it means to play history. To many people studying history, the idea of playing history is not a common idea, instead many think of history as a purely academic endeavor based on fact. One thing I have learned in this section of the course is that history is not like math, and there is never only one correct answer to a historical question, this is best outlined by Jeremiah McCall in [his article](http://gamestudies.org/2003/articles/mccall) when he writes, “history is simply the curated representation of the past”.  McCall’s take on history can change one’s perspective on the field of history as a whole because when you think about it all history really is, is someone looking at information, gathering what they think is important and interpreting something about the past based on the information they have chosen to look at. When looking at history through the lens of curation I start to get a better understanding of what it means to play history. In my opinion to play history is to interpret what we know about the past in new and interesting ways which will ultimately lead to a better understanding of the past and perhaps even create excitement in a field which has become increasingly disenchanted. 

As I mentioned previously history has become an increasingly disenchanted field of study. When thinking of enchantment people often think about the views of societies that existed before modern understandings of science and history, where people posited outlandish theories about magic and other things to explain what they could not understand. Under this definition of enchantment, it would seem like it is a good thing that the field of history has become disenchanted, however there are some scholars who have their own definition of enchantment and believe that it is necessary to grow the field of history and change the notion of history being boring. In [this article](https://www.degruyter.com/document/doi/10.1515/9781400884537/html) Jane Bennet describes enchantment. “Enchantment is a sense of openness to the unusual, the captivating, and the disturbing in everyday life.”. Under this definition enchantment becomes something much different than an ignorance towards the modern understanding of the world and instead represents the wonder and excitement that has been largely missing from the field of history. While the enchantment of history sounds like a positive thing that would get more people interested about history and hopefully grow and change the perception of history the question remains, how can history be enchanted? Sara Perry seems to believe that “emotive engagement” is what causes history to become enchanted, when people feel strong emotions about something they are more likely to act on those emotions, [in this journal](ps://www-cambridge-org.proxy.library.carleton.ca/core/journals/european-journal-of-archaeology/article/enchantment-of-the-archaeological-record/6B71DCDB28D3FABE22660EEA860ED7FE) Perry describes things like role playing, humor, and challenge as things that cause “emotive engagement” this for me is easy to understand. When I am reading a scholarly article I often become distracted or disengaged with the material and even though the article may be filled with interesting ideas and information about a particular topic I very rarely experience what could be considered enchantment after reading, however if I am watching a video that blends humor with history or am playing a game that has historical elements I become much more engaged and am much more interested in what information is being relayed to me. One of my takeaways from section two of this class is that in history playfulness and enchantment go hand in hand.

In class we learned about the alternate reality game, or ARG for short, [Tecumseh Lies Here](https://www.fulcrum.org/epubs/5q47rq179?locale=en#/6/34[Kee-0017]!/4/2[ch10]/14/1:0) I found that this game best exemplified the connection between playing history and enchantment and really highlighted how important playfulness can be to history. History professors at Western University Timothy Compeau and Robert MacDougall created a story centered around First nations military leader Tecumseh and the war of 1812 using fictional agents and planted evidence, this story was then revealed to history students anonymously with an invitation to solve the mystery the story posed. In the end the students solved the mystery of Tecumseh Lies Here and along they way gained valuable knowledge about historical research methods and about the war of 1812. Tecumseh Lies Here taught students history in a way that academic articles never could. Obviously, all the information students got from participating in the ARG could have been obtained by reading textbooks and writing essays, however the engagement and interest that students showed while exploring the mystery of Tecumseh Lies Here is not something that can be reproduced in a traditional academic environment. 

Alternate reality games such as Tecumseh Lies Here are games which use real the real world as the setting and use multiple platforms such as the internet and telephones to tell a story and further the game. When done right ARG’s focusing on history can be one of the most powerful tools to generate enchantment for someone and can be one of the best ways to play history however as I have learned in this class there are many other mediums in which playfulness in history can be expressed. One medium we have used to explore playfulness in history in class is video games. There are countless historical video games that exist. Historical video games can range from being historically accurate to only being loosely based on some history. It would seem that the more historically accurate a game is the more useful the game is to historians, however as we have learned in class all historical games have value, Jeremiah McCall who I previously referenced in this reflection exemplifies this point when talking about historical video games, “They do the work of history, the curated representation of the past to those in the present”. McCall reinforces the point that no matter what history a game displays, its creator is in some way presenting what they consider relevant information to tell some sort of narrative about the past. I think that as long as we realise that there is no one correct way to think about the past all historical games can provide some value. One way in which we learned to analyse historical games in class is to use McCall’s idea of the historical problem space framework, or HPS for short. Using the HPS framework allows someone to look at the many components of a game and from there one can get a better understanding of what the creator of the game is trying to tell the player. In class we used the HPS framework to analyse the game Nothing Beside Remains which is pretty much a game where you walk around desert ruins and interact with objects. By looking at Nothing Beside Remains through the HPS framework I tried to derive the genre of the game, what the objectives were, who I was supposed to be playing as, and what strategies I could use to play the game. The HPS allowed me to go beyond the surface of the game and try to understand what the creator of the game was trying to get across to me. In class we were encouraged to think about how the HPS framework could apply beyond games and after thinking about it for a while I believe that it can definitely apply beyond games, however the language used when analysing something has to change. If I was going to analyse a scholarly article through the HPS framework instead of genre I would ask what the academic background of the author is, instead of goals I would ask what message is the author trying to convey, instead of strategies I would ask who is the target audience and what lenses could I read this article through and so on. My understanding of the HPS framework is that it is a guide to look at all the parts of something and understand why the creator chose to display their curated representation of the past.     
	

